Allah created the heavens and earth
and determined therein its [creatures'] sustenance
He created in the heavens and earth
everything we need to live in peace
until Allah inherits the earth and whoever is on it.
Earth's lungs are its forests,
its oceans,
and its rivers.
A balance
that earth's been built upon for billions of years
Then man came.
Then
man came.
We destroyed crops and animals.
We lit the flames of war,
destroyed
displaced.
We oppressed one another.
We spared nothing,
no human and no animal.
We spread corruption on earth
until it complained to its Creator.
Some people die of hunger,
and others of eating too much.
Many are forced to flee
so a handful can live in luxury.
Destruction
Collapse
Corruption and injustice
But
do not despair of Allah's spirit.
Man
has a choice.
Just as there is bad,
there is good.
In the face of corruption
stands benevolence.
With hardship must
come ease.
We sent people to the moon,
and defeated deadly diseases.
We built skyscrapers,
We've soared between earth and sky.
We erased illiteracy
in many parts of the world.
We've invented,
risen,
and built.
And this is just the beginning of the journey,
for the journey to excellence is long.
We'll stumble,
only to stand back up.
We can overcome
a mountain of difficulties.
We must populate and develop the earth.
Is the reward for good [anything] but good?
"Khawater 11"
"Behind the Scenes"
Behind the scenes
The last episode
Okay
Hello
Action?
Can this even be fixed?
Stop
How does it stop?
That's enough
Whoa, where did it come from?
What is it with Khawater and dogs?
Hey there
Come, come
Some say you won't be doing Khawater anymore.
This will be the last year.
Behind the scenes
This is a light episode.
The season was packed with information,
so we've always tried to end on a light
and fun note for the viewers.
We'll show what happened behind the scenes
of this season.
He said, "His mother carries him"
"His mother carried him, [increasing her] in weakness upon weakness"
Take the whole clip in one shot
but without the screaming
so people don't turn off the TV.
You look like...
They'll say Ahmad has a body guard.
How are you?
Everything good?
Yes
I used to be like this before
but not anymore.
Play 'Ahwak'
This is the Ahwak remix.
Wow! That was a good one!
Okay, tell us what you think
of Khawater in Portuguese.
That's truly what sets it apart!
This is the show's secret.
Ghandour was stung.
Where? On your ear?
How does it feel?
It burns.
You killed the bee.
Yeah
He came.
There's a great project in Sudan,
the Arab world's food basket.
What is the project with Al Mujadidun?
The agricultural project...
Me, me
Nice to meet you
Ahmad
I host the show "Khawater".
Explain it to us
Ahmad
Nice to meet you
The show Khawater
I'm the host
I was just saying I want your attention...
Are you sure the sound is clear with all the noise?
Let's start?
That's the first point.
Secondly...
I don't think it'll work for me to talk here.
Is my voice clear?
I'll make use of the times when it's quiet.
The issue of child labor and slavery
They decide to dedicate their lives
or some of their time
This is how problems are solved
An example of that today,
as we have seen...
In India alone
The need for freedom is innate.
Filming in India is like this.
They love to honk.
Let me hear what's next.
Wow! Great music.
The land is a grazing ground for camels.
It is their plate.
Whoa
What's wrong?
We don't want to eat.
A message to the youth about starting
their projects,
you don't necessarily have to start a huge project,
that requires a great budget.
You can start with a small idea
and a very simple beginning,
and subhanallah, with time it'll grow.
This was my experience with Khawater.
We started very simply,
and with a very simple pilot episode.
The performance was low.
We'll show it to you.
"Khawater Shab"
"Bathrooms"
The sewer doesn't work in the bathroom
so the water is overflowing.
It smells really bad.
"A restaurant's bathroom"
This is the second bathroom now.
There are several things to take note of.
First, the sinks are the latest model.
We did two episodes:
one about happiness
and another about cleaning bathrooms
and an invitation to improve mosques' bathrooms.
We did the pilot,
in 2005,
and I was very hesitant about sending the pilot
to MBC.
I didn't like it and thought we could make it better
and that they wouldn't approve
but we relied on Allah and sent it.
It was on a VHS.
Wow!
The start of Khawater
Are we filming?
Sometimes we film without anyone behind the camera.
it's just on.
Yes, so this is how Khawater began.
With time, the project developed
and if you watch Khawater 1
and compare it to Khawater 11,
you'll see a great difference in everything,
in the production, budget, work,
performance and in everything.
The price of gas
The price of gas,
how much did it cost...
The price of gas
if we look at the price of gas in 1938
The need...
Does he show or not?
He shows
Let's have him show in the episode
Yes
No, but it won't work.
Why?
Because it's a serious episode.
I'm serious
The second need:
Safety
Humans need to feel safe,
that they live in a safe place
and go from their homes to their workplace
safely, without any threat to their lives.
I felt like James Bond.
The question
You should hand it to someone
and they...
It's okay, take it
You should give it to the person in charge right away
Delegation
Normal activities, such as going to the movies,
in the year 19...
Even normal activities, such as going to the movies,
cost around 25 cents in 1938.
I forgot what segment it is.
Oh, now I know.
Okay, 478.
This is one of Khawater's most important segments.
I can't see you.
Yes, come next to me.
Okay, stay like this.
One of the most...
We use it every day
in large amounts
One of the most used plastic products at home,
what do you think they are?
Plastic bottles
This is a melon.
Melon
Marhoom
Who's marhoom (deceased)?
Where?
Algeria
Algeria!
Really? I never knew that.
Melon,
or Marhoom,
as our brothers in Algeria call it.
We just learned a new word from Mr. Osman.
Tell us more words.
This is called Zorodiya
or Sinariya.
Or Sinariya
Okay, okay, I think we're stuck.
We did it.
Nairobi adventures
Kenya
I forgot that I'm fasting.
Remind me!
Okay, no problem.
We'll take it with us when we break our fast.
My muscle strained immediately.
This is what happens when you don't
exercise well.
She'll try to cure the strain.
Is she getting something with her?
What did you do?
Mr. Sid said he'll treat my leg with my hand.
Okay
You're kidding!
They found this solution,
which is like a pump and a filter
and then...
Are we doing it wrong?
There's no water?
This is a solution that doesn't work.
Don't do this.
That's why when the Qur'an mentions wives,
"And of His signs is that He created for you from
yourselves mates that you may find tranquillity in them;
and He placed between you..."
love?
Affection and mercy
I know, I'm asking the viewers.
I'm just testing them.
The show is called...
What did we call the show?
As-Salamu 'Alaikum
Welcome to our show
Welcome to the show...
Asalamu 'Alaikum to our viewers
and welcome to the show 'Hakawika Zawajika'.
'Hawariko Bain Azawajiko'
Welcome
What do you appreciate most about me?
Your love for me.
You love me because...
As much as you have bad qualities...
Thank you
Bad and ugly qualities, I don't know why but I love you.
Walk forward
She's laughing!
Tell her, I don't know how you manage your life.
Stop
Why didn't you tell me to stop?
I told you to stop, you stepped.
You told him to stop?
You didn't.
What is this?
A jacket
I mean did you recently receive it?
From Saudi
What's wrong?
"Filming of the theme song"
Anything you liked in the theme song,
he was in charge.
To be honest, I haven't decided
exactly what I want to do after Khawater,
but what I do know,
and we've started this before Ramadan,
is working on creating
educational and entertaining shows.
We had the idea of starting a show
about learning from animals
and we called it "Omam".
We also did a light show called "Dr. Cash".
It gives viewers a financial principle
at the end of the episode.
"Top 5"
is a show that gives general knowledge
about the top 5 things regarding the topic at hand.
We also thought to invest the international days
and came up with a show titled "Internaional Days"
where, in three or four minutes we clarify
some ideas about the specific day we're talking about.
We always tell people not to eat junk food
and people ask what they should eat instead.
So we made a show called "Akel Tricks" (Food Tricks).
The show is about healthy food
and information about food and nutrition.
Of course, there's also the show "Samtan"
that shows after Khawater
and was also shown last year.
Inshallah it goes on for more seasons.
So this is one thing I'm moving towards,
making more of these shows.
ARAM creates shows with the aim of educating
through entertainment.
We didn't mean to say any false information
or harm anyone in any of the seasons.
If that happened,
and I'm sure it has
because this is a human project,
we apologize,
it wasn't meant.
And all praise goes to Allah
for anything beneficial said.
Always remember and mention us in prayers
because I think one of the secrets to Khawater's
continuity these past years is the viewers' supplication.
So thank you, thank you very much.
A special thanks to my parents,
Rula, my wife,
and Yousef and Ibrahim
because I was absent these past few years
and for making it through this last period of time,
which was very difficult,
because Khawater was my #1 priority.
A few years ago, I sat with the entire family
and told them that Khawater will be my priority.
I thank them all greatly
and may you be rewarded.
I thank everyone who worked on Khawater
and everyone who watched.
We're honored that you allowed us to
enter your homes
and talk to you,
and to give you our thoughts.
And for those who watched us throughout the years,
and chose Khawater from among hundreds of shows.
Thank you. Thank you.
May God reward you.
It was a wonderful, close relationship
that lasted 11 years.
Thank you very much,
pray for our success.
This is the last episode,
so we'll see you when God wills
us to see you again inshallah.
When the Prophet peace be upon him,
said,"If the Final Hour comes
while you have a
palm-cutting in your hands
and it is possible to plant it before
the Hour comes, you should plant it."
Translated by Dima Kamal Masri